Shipyard documentation in website (#91)
submariner-io/submariner-website: src/content/contributing/shipyard/_index.en.md

---
title: "Working With Shipyard"
date: 2020-04-20T17:12:52+0300
weight: 10
---

## Overview

The Shipyard project provides tooling for creating K8s clusters with [KIND](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kind) (K8s in Docker) and provides a Go framework for creating end to end tests.

> Feel free to add any capabilities that need to be shared to Shipyard, while any project specific capabilities should probably be part of that project.

Reviewer: The wording, "_Feel free to.._." ,seems awkward to me. Maybe "_Shipyard contains common functionality shared by other projects - any project specific functionality should be part of that project._".

Having any of the Shipyard Makefile targets rely on your project's specific targets can be done easily by adding the dependency in your project's Makefile.
For example:

```Makefile
clusters: build images
```

#### Use an Updated Shipyard Image in Your Project

If you've made changes to Shipyard's [base image](#dapper-image) and need to test them in your project, run:

```
make dapper-image
```

in the Shipyard directory. This creates a local image with your changes available for consumption in other projects.

## Shared Makefile Targets

Shipyard ships a [Makefile.inc] file which defines these basic targets:
* **[clusters](#clusters):** Creates the KIND -based cluster environment.
* **[deploy](#deploy)** : Deploys submariner components in the cluster environment (depends on clusters).
* **[cleanup](#cleanup):** Deletes the KIND environment (if it exists) and any residual resources.
* **[release](#release):** Uploads the requested image(s) to Quay.io.
* **vendor/modules.txt:** Populates go modules (in case go.mod exists in the root directory).

If your project uses Shipyard then it has all these targets and supports all the variables these targets support.

> Any variables supported by these targets can be either declared as environment variables or assigned on the make command line (takes precedence over environment variables).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Any variables supported by these targets can be either declared as environment variables or assigned on the `make` command line (takes precedence over environment variables).
```

### Clusters {#clusters}

> A make target that creates a KIND based multi-cluster environment with just the default K8s deployment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A Make target that creates a KIND-based multi-cluster environment with just the default K8s deployment:
```

```
make clusters
```

Respected variables:
* **CLUSTERS_ARGS:** Any arguments (flags and/or values) to be sent to the `clusters.sh` script. To get a list of available arguments, run: `scripts/shared/clusters.sh --help`

### Deploy {#deploy}

> A make target that deploys submariner components in a KIND-based cluster environment (if one isn't created yet, this target will first invoke the clusters target to do so):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A Make target that deploys Submariner components in a KIND-based cluster environment (if one isn't created yet, this target will first invoke the clusters target to do so):
```

> A basic target that deploys submariner on a KIND based multi-cluster environment (if one isn't deployed, this target will deploy it as well):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A make target that deploys submariner components in a KIND-based cluster environment (if one isn't created yet, this target will first invoke the clusters target to do so):
```

```
make deploy
```

Respected variables:
* Any variable from [clusters](#clusters) target (only if it wasn't created).
* **DEPLOY_ARGS:** Any arguments (flags and/or values) to be sent to the `deploy.sh` script. To get a list of available arguments, run: `scripts/shared/deploy.sh --help`

### Cleanup {#cleanup}

To clean up all the KIND clusters deployed in any of the previous steps, use:

```
make cleanup
```

> This command will make sure to remove the clusters, and any clutter that might've been left in docker and is not needed any more (images, volumes, etc).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command will remove the clusters and any resources that might've been left in docker that are not needed any more (images, volumes, etc).
```

### Release {#release}

Uploads the built images to Quay.io:

```
make release release_images="<image name>"
```

Respected variables:
* **QUAY_USERNAME, QUAY_PASSWORD:** Needed in order to log in to Quay.

> * **release_images:** Has to have at least one image name to release, and could have several separated by spaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **release_images:** One or more image names to release separated by spaces.
```

* **release_tag:** A tag to use for the release (default is *latest*).

> * **repo:** The quay repo to use (default is *quay.io/submariner*).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **repo:** The Quay repo to use (default is *quay.io/submariner*).
```

## Specific Makefile Targets

> Shipyard has some project specific targets which are used to build parts of the projects:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Shipyard has some project-specific targets which are used to build parts of the projects:
```
